Counselling & Guidance
We are here to help you address personal or emotional challenges that may affect you while studying or working in Makerere University

The Counselling and Guidance Centre is here to help you address personal or emotional challenges that may affect you while studying or working in Makerere University. The Counselling and Guidance Centre works closely with all university units to enable students realize their academic and personal potential and to assist staff in addressing psychological issues that may affect them in living worthy and productive lives.

Profile
Henry Nsubuga
Henry Nsubuga is a Counselling Psychologist
Henry Nsubuga is a Counselling Psychologist. He holds an M.A Counselling Psychology, an MSc. In International Primary Health Care from the University College London (UCL) and a Bachelor of Philosophy degree from Makerere University. Mr. Nsubuga’s interests are in career guidance and counselling, individual and group counselling, adjustment related concerns, consultation and outreach, management and organization issues.

He has previously worked as Head of Counselling, Straight Talk Foundation – The biggest adolescent sexual reproductive health and development communication organization in Uganda. He later joined Makerere University School of Public Health/CDC HIV/AIDS Fellowship Programme as the Assistant Training Coordinator between June 2008 and August 2010. In September 2010 he joined Makerere University as the Head of the Counselling and Guidance Services. Mr. Henry Nsubuga is the current President of Uganda Counselling Association.

While doing International Primary Health Care he specialized in quality improvement in health care, international health systems, teaching and learning in health care and service development.

Counselling and Guidance Services
The centre provides services to enhance academic success and further educational goals for Makerere University students. The Counselling and Guidance Centre provides several services these include:

Individual Counselling
Career Guidance and Counselling
Academic support services
Group Counselling
Organising outreaches to halls of residence and hostels
Organising seminars and workshops for students and staff
Self-help print and online materials
Staff services
Staff also need support from the Counselling and Guidance Centre. Their issues and services may be different from those of students but may equally affect their productivity at the University. The centre staff is also available to consult with administrative offices, faculty and staff about issues affecting staff and student welfare and development.

Contact Information 
Office of the Manager Counselling & Guidance Services:

Henry Nsubuga (M. Sc IPHC (UCL), M. Counselling Psychology (MUK), B. Phil (MUK)
P.O. Box 7062, Kampala Uganda
Tel: +256-772-558022

Counsellor: Ms Rose Nalwanga
P.O. Box 7062, Kampala Uganda
Tel: +256-784-107106 or +256-704-141386