About Courses at Makerere University
A course is a unit of work in particular Field/Area of study normally extending through one semester the completion of which normally carries credit towards the fulfillment of the requirements of certain Degrees or Diplomas.

Contact Hours & Credit Units
A contact hour shall be equivalent to One (1) hour of lecture/ clinical or two (2) hours of tutorial/ Practical or four (4) hours of internship/ field work. A Credit or Credit Unit is the measure used to reflect the relative weight of a given course towards the fulfillment of appropriate Degree, Diploma, Certificate or other programmes required. One Credit Unit shall be One Contact Hour per Week per Semester or a series of Fifteen (15) Contact Hours.

Course Assessment
Each course is assessed in two parts as follows: - The Coursework (Progressive/ Continuous Assessment), which shall contribute not less than 30% nor more than 40% of the Total Marks The Coursework (Progressive/ Continuous Assessment) component shall consist of at least one (1) Homework/ Take-Home Assignment OR Two (2) Tests per course. The University Examinations, which shall contribute a maximum of 70% of the Total marks.

Examination
The last two weeks of the semester are dates for the End Semester examinations. A precise timetable, giving day and room for each exam, is published during the semester. This timetable goes up on the examination Notice boards at your college/ school. You also need to copy from this timetable your personalized timetable, which gives you allocation of date, time and examination room.

While there is a lot reasonable care made to ensure that examination sessions don’t clash, there might be coincidences where this happens due to limited time/ examinations rooms. When the first edition of the timetable is published, you might find clashes in your timetable where by you are supposed to appear in more than one examination at the same time or the list of examinations is wrong or missing, you should draw attention of the Examinations CoOrdinator in your College/ School about such a problem as soon as possible.