Hospital & Health Care
Makerere University Health Services (MakHS) refers to services offered by Makerere University Hospital, the Dental School and Satellite clinics at Kabanyolo and Jinja campuses.

Makerere University Health Services (MakHS) refers to services offered by Makerere University Hospital, the Dental School and Satellite clinics at Kabanyolo and Jinja campuses. Makerere University Hospital has been in existence since 1978 and has served not only as a center for providing healthcare services but also as a center for training, research.

The Hospital is managed by Makerere University College of Health Sciences (MakCHS) and all CHS departments are reflected at the Hospital and highly supported by professionals from the College of Health Sciences (CHS). MakCHS (former Makerere Medical School) is a leading College in training, research and health care practice in Africa.

Vision
A leading healthcare organization, nationally and internationally, improving health outcomes through research, training, collaboration and innovation.

Mission
To provide the best care to every client through our personal and shared commitment to excellence in clinical practice, education, research, and innovation, while fostering our partnerships. 

Profile – Hospital Director
Dr. Byamugisha Josaphat Kayogoza
Dr. Byamugisha Josaphat Kayogoza
Dr. Byamugisha Josaphat Kayogoza is the Director Makerere University Health Services (Cross- appointment). He is Founder President East Central and Southern Africa College of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (ECSACOG). He headed  Obs/Gyn Mak University 2008-2016.

He has more than 100 publications. (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=byamugisha+j&sort=pubdate)

He comes in with vast training (MBChB, MMed, PhD, FAIMER Fellow (PA, USA), and more than twenty years’ experience in health care delivery, leadership, research, M & E and is a positive thinker with Positive deviance.

Human Resources for Health

The hospital has a number of specialists including professors from the college of health sciences and general practitioners. Our health care team is dedicated to give services to our clients.

University Hospital Services

The hospital provides the following services student, staff and the general community:

General outpatient services
Inpatient care services
Consultant-driven outpatient clinics 
Pharmacy services
HIV care services
Immunization services
Dental services provided at Dental Hospital on main campus
Ear Nose and Throat (ENT) services.
Optometry
Ophthalmology services
Sports Medicine & Physiotherapy
Clinical nurse specialists
Surgical services
Diagnostic Radiological services
Laboratory services
Ambulance & Evacuation services
Appointments: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we encourage all medical consultations to be on appointment with the respective specialists so that we minimize crowding at the hospital

Contact information

P.O. Box 7062, Kampala, Uganda

Tel: +256-414-541577/ +256-414-542922

Facebook: @MakerereHospital·Hospital

Twitter: @MakerereHosp

Where to find us
The Hospital is located on Bativa Road, just off Gaddafi Road as you branch off from Makerere Hill Road, in Kampala Central Division, about 2 kilometers (1 mi), southwest of Makerere University College of Health Sciences main campus. The coordinates of Makerere University Hospital are 0°19'40.0"N, 32°34'15.0"E (Latitude: 0.327771; Longitude: 32.570843).